hi I'm Brent shelving exhibit design
manager of the Oregon Zoo here on the
construction site of Redick reserve we
just completed a successful exhibit with
predators of the Serengeti and now we're
focusing our efforts on completing ready
preserve a new exhibit for orangutans
and white chick Gibbons we've already
completed some major milestones and i'd
like to share those with you now the
first milestone is the opening of the
log tunnel which will serve as the
entrance to read a preserve the tunnel
passes directly through the outdoor
exhibit shared by the orangutans and
Gibbons it was a creative solution to a
practical problem of getting visitors
into the primates building while still
giving the animals as much space as
possible as people pass through the
tunnel meant to look like a tree falling
in the forest you'll notice that there
are 9 porthole windows at the sides and
on the roof through these windows
visitors will be able to watch the
Gibbons and orangutang as they literally
climb and swing overhead the second
milestone is the opening of the new
indoor given exhibit although the
orangutang zin the white cheek given
share the same outdoor enclosure they
have separate indoor exhibits the given
exhibit is a renovation of a space that
was built originally in 1959 and last
remodeled in the 1980s we've added
murals to the walls trees vines rocks as
well as natural plants so that the
exhibit now better depicts the natural
habitat of white-cheeked Gibbons I'm now
standing at one of the large viewing
windows that looks into the outdoor
exhibit shared by orangutang zand
Gibbons and in the distance is the
landmark feature of reading preserved
the enrichment tree which we've spoken
about in the past we've now completed
these structural elements of the tree
and it's just waiting its final
decorative coat the enrichment tree will
allow keepers to feed the animals safely
inside the tree and provide enrichment
in the form of treats and other
activities so they can demonstrate
natural foraging behavior as they would
in the wild visitors coming to the zoo
now we'll see how much progress we've
made and also be able to watch as we
continue to add to the structure that's
in place put logs and sway poles and
other climbing features in the outdoor
exhibit for the animals and when you
pass through the new log tunnel you may
not be able to watch orangatang xand
gibbons climbing and swinging overhead
right now the through the porthole
windows you'll be able to watch progress
as it's being made we look forward to
completing the exhibit watching the
orangutans and Gibbons enjoying their
new enclosure and opening it to the
public in the months ahead